# Read me

This repository contains data and code necessary to reproduce analysis from the article: Burdukiewicz, M., Sidorczuk, K., Rafacz, D., Pietluch, F., Chilimoniuk, J., Rödiger, S. and Gagat, P. AmpGram: a proteome screening tool for prediction and design of antimicrobial peptides.

The analysis conducted in this article resulted in a predictor of antimicrobial peptides AmpGram, available as a *R* package (https://cran.r-project.org/package=AmpGram) and a web server (www.smorfland.uni.wroc.pl/shiny/AmpGram/).



## How to reproduce the main part of the analysis?

Source **analysis.R**. Be warned that computations are time consuming.

## How to generate results and plots for publication?

Run **generate_benchmark_data.R** and then **benchmark.R** an **plots.R**. The first script generates AmpGram model and files necessary 
for running benchmark. Moreover, to generate plots, you have to run benchmark first.

## Repository structure

### data

Processed data used in the study: 

* **SuppTable1.tsv** and **SuppTable2.tsv** - data sets and results of benchmark from [Gabere and Noble](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btx081).
* **ampscanner_noble.csv** - predictions of AMPScanner for data sets of [Gabere and Noble](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btx081).
* **apd_df.csv** - data downloaded from [APD3 database](https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkv1278).
* **benchmark_all.csv** - predictions of other AMP predictors on our benchmark data set.
* **benchmark_all_program_list** - list of predictors considered in our benchmark.
* **benchmark_data.RData** - object generated by **generate_benchmark_data.R** script, contains model, important features and counted n-grams for benchmark data set.
* **dbamp_df.csv** - data downloaded from [dbAMP database](https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gky1030), contains sequences used to train and benchmark AmpGram.
* **iAMPpred_benchmark.csv** - predictions of iAMPpred on our benchmark data set.
* **bovine_lactoferrin.fasta** and **thrombin.fasta** - sequences of bovine lactoferrin and human prothrombin used to generate plots with prediction results for publication.


### functions

All functions necessary to repeat the analysis.

### reports

Report summing up the results obtained with the first random models that predicts AMP properties in 10-mers. 

### results

* **AmpGram_model.rda** - object containing AmpGram stacked random forest model and important features
* **AmpGram_model.rda** - object containing AmpGram stacked random forest model trained on a smaller subset of important features
* **Nobles_datasets_benchmark_res.rds** - results of AmpGram predictions for data sets from [Gabere and Noble](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btx081)
* **benchmark.fasta** - our benchmark data set generated by **writing_benchmarks.R** function.


## RSession information

All scripts used in this study are compatible with following version of R:

* **R version 3.6.2 (2019-12-12)**
* **Platform:** x86_64-pc-linux-gnu (64-bit)

Necessary packages and their versions used in the analyses are listed in **renv.lock**


## Additional information

**Uniprot quotation** used to obtain sequences for construction of negative data set:

> NOT antimicrobial NOT annotation:(type:transit) NOT antibacterial NOT antifungal NOT antiviral AND reviewed:yes